May 22, 2025 - Conversation with Katia

NCUA 5300 Call Report
	• Due quarterly
	• Need to specify delinquent loans, by frequency and type
	• A lot of issues of getting data from the core
		○ A lot of credit unions don't put beneficiaries in their system, need to track this data down separately. Pain point. 
	• Total share (if negative) need to add to the total share account
	• Not an audit, it's an exam
	• Every year and a half will have an exam (NCUA staff onsite to audit)

Process for 5300 Call Report:
	• Most credit unions do it manually
	• Secure has a module that generates the 5300
	• Accounting is wisdom (also a portico product)
	• Participation loan data (eg. CU own up to 90% of the loan balance, other CU owns 10%)
	• Delinquency, not tracked in accounting system. Need to get from data processor (e.g., portico). Pain point.
	• Timeline for 5300 report
		○ About a day to prepare and check everything
		○ Quarterly filing
	• Exam
		○ Need paper work to show support
		○ Data requested: Loan profile, delinquent loan, PSA purposes to check policies, OFAX scan, etc
		○ Smaller credit union are focused more on controls
		○ Currently a whole week on site for Secure (more questions from them a week)
			§ At least 2 to 3 days to pull paper work 
			§ Information is mostly in shared drive
			
Current Best In Class Accounting Module Features
		○ CUAnswers is great - Katia likes it because it's flexible (eg can easily reverse JEs), very flexible of how it can be used
			§ Clicking the line item will break down into person, and line item information, no need to manually dig into the core
			§ Getting totals is easy (rather than having to pull reports)
		○ Would love to pull reports from participation loans, etc - so that they can populate information directly in the accounting reports
		○ Wisdom has an import function for excel (need to be preformatted a certain way) to upload information. For reporting not very helpful, it won't help with delinquency. 
Purchasing Process
	• Accounting software is dictated by the core (core provider dictates what the accounting systems)
		○ Fiserv - one of the most expensive, charged by $1.50 by number of customer 
		○ Per month, secure, all products - $60K
		○ Other credit union - $20k to $25k (different provider)
		○ Fiserv charges $7 dollar per credit card on file 
			§ Envisant charges $2 per credit card
			§ Make it very hard to switch providers
			§ Core migration could run up 
		○ Close to a $1K
		○ Also on what they consider as "active accounts"
		
	• Other nice to have features in certain scenarios
		○ HMDA - for real estate mortgages (if you meet a minimum RE transactions only)
			§ Very complex process, everybody complains about it
		○ Once you become a CDFI grant recipients (complicated)
			§ Usually hire a 3rd party to pull those reports
		○ Everybody needs
			§ BSA - anti-money laundering efforts and check. Check against FINCEN list, updated every Tuesday. (manual process)
			§ FFIEC
				□ Cybercrime and cyber security audit required for financial institutions
				□ Extremely complex for audit
			§ The core checks if there's a match between names in the core vs accounting module
			§ FIDM 
				□ Every state has a system that tracks people who don't pay child support. Similar for FINCEN, need to remit 
			§ Unclaimed assets remittance
			§ SAFE act audit (loan audit, discremination)
		○ Board reporting requirements
			§ Loan deliquincy (over 60 days)
			§ Under performance assets
			§ F/S data
			§ BSA how many suspicious activities found
			§ Any policy that needs to be reviewed or changed
			§ Any close or open accounts
			§ CECL 
			§ Assets liquity manage  
			§ Fraud report
			§ Shares and loans
			§ Katia - likes to run the reports on a trending basis rather than at a specific month to see if the trend is aligned with the overall strategy. Board members are unpaid. 
			§ Small credit unions usually ask for permission from board before charge off

	• Katia Cell Number - 910 286 9230
